# Classifiers Part 2

##### Decision rules:
* Sets of if-then rules which you check in order
* Generating Rules from Decision Tree:
  * Create decision Tree
  * IF there is at least one path that is worth keeping, go to 3 else go to 6
  * Take the Best single path from root to leaf and make that path a rule
  * Remove all data points classified by that rule from data set
  * Go to step 1
  * Take all remaining data points
  * Find the most common value for those data points
  * Make and otherwise rule using that 
* These rules are:
  * Leads to simple models
  * Relatively conservative
  * Very interpretable
  * Good for when multilevel interactions are common


##### K Nearest Neighbor:
* Predicts a data point from the neighboring k data points through an iterative process.

##### K\*:
* Predicts a data point form neighboring data points by weighing points more strongly if they are nearby.
* Good when the data is VERY divergent. A lot of different clumps.
* Intractable to find general rules.
* But data points that are similar tend to be from the same group.
* Sometimes works when nothing else works.
* Big Drawback: You MUST have the full dataset avaliable for each run.

##### Bagged Stumps:
* Related to decision trees
* Lots of trees with only the first features and aggregate across them (ens ambling).
* A close variant of random forests.

##### Common Thread:
* These algorithms tend to:
  * Be simple
  * Not overhitting
* Why Simple?: More complex algorithms tend to overhit given the substantial amount of systematic noise that exists in educational data sets.

##### Support Vector Machines:
* Conducts dimensionality reduction on data space and then fits hyperplane which splits classes.
* Creates very sophisticated models
* Great for text mining (NLP).
* Great for sensor data.
* __NOT__ great for educational data (e.g. logs, grades, software interactions)

##### Genetic Algorithms:
* Uses mutation, combination, and natural selection to search space of possible models.
* Can produce inconsistent answers.
* Good for finding complex functions but tend to overhit a little in an educational context.

##### Neural Networks:
* Compose extremely complex relationships through combining what are called perceptions. 
* Very difficult to interpret.

