# Data Synchronization and Grain Size

##### Grain Size:
* __Key Question__ -> What level do you want to construct the construct at?
* Levels of observation:
  * Student-Level -> Average across all of your observations of that student to get the percent of observations.
  * Day-Level -> Average across all of your observations of the student on a specific day to get percent of observations on that day.
    * Affords finder intervention than student level.
    * Still better for coarse-level interactions.
  * Lesson-Level ->  Average across all of your observations of your observations of the student within a specific level, to get the percent of observations that were gaming.
    * End-of-Lesson interventions.
    * Course quality evaluations.
  * Problem-Level -> Average across all of your observations of the student within a specific problem, to get the percent of observations that were gaming.
    * Can be sued for end-of-problem of between-problem interventions.
    * Can be sued for evaluation problem quality. 
    * Challenging as sometimes observations cut across problems.
  * Observation-Level -> Take each observation and try to predict it individually. 
    * Most natural mapping
    * Affords close-to-immediate intervention
    * Fined-grind discovery with model analysis.
    * Challenging to synch log files as you need to determine time window which observation occurred in.
  * Action-Level -> You could apply your observation label to each action in the time window and then fit a model at the level of actions by treating actions from the same clip as independent from one and other.
    * Some models identify the overall construct at the action level, but validate at the clip level.
    * Less certain, action by action, but allows for rapid and targeted intervention.

